README.md, before:

# Transform VMware product builds

This Python code parses VMware product release data from the kb
article [Correlating build numbers and versions of VMware products (1014508)](https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/1014508?lang=en_US)
and transforms them into a machine-readable format.  
A combination of parsing with [beautiful soup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/) and data handling
with [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) is the used to achieve the goal. A process is scheduled with GitHub actions to
run daily, the results will be pushed to the
repo [Machine-readable VMware release data](https://github.com/dominikzorgnotti/vmware_product_releases_machine-readable)
.

## Data standardization

Since v0.1.0 the raw data from the published KB is transformed to establish a standard in terms of column headers,
formatting, etc. KB 2143832 (ESXi) is used as the model for providing a standardized information set.

### Uniform column names

Columns describing the same data set have different labels, e.g. "Build number", "Build Number", "BuildNumber".  
In case of the example, the columns will be renamed to "Build Number" per KB 2143832.

### Multi-value columns

Columns may have more than one value, e.g. "Build Number - Version" in KB2143850 (vRealize Automation).  
In this case, two additional columns (Version, Build Number) will be added to the table each containing just a single
Value.

### Merged tables

Roadmap: There may be more than one table that hold the version information, e.g. in KB2143838 (vCenter Server). A merge
operation will attempt to provide a unified table.

### Nested tables, merged columns/rows

Since v0.2.0: For vCenter build information (KB2143838), this release based on PR #5 offers merged tables:
The KB article contains three tables:

- Release information for VCSA 7
- Release information for VCSA/Windows VC 6.7
- Release information for VCSA/Windows before that

The merged output available is now:

- one table for all VCSA releases
- one table for all Windows releases
- one table for all releases Unicode issues are addressed as well

### Non-standard tables

Since v0.4.0 the script can handle KB52075 (vxrail). This table has none of the default column names and also multi-line
column headers.

## Output format and folder structures

The way the output is currently structured is:

- Directory: based on Pandas options to
  handle [json data orientation](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.to_json.html)
    - Files: KB(a)_(b)_table(c)_release_as_(d)"
        - a: knowledge base article id - the unique ID for the KB article
        - b: product name - The first product from the meta data, all in lower case and spaces replaced by underscores
        - c: An id to identify multiple html tables on the section (starting at 0)
        - d: json data orientation - see above

## Disclaimer

This is not an official VMware repository and in no way linked in official capacity to my employment at VMware.

Commit message:

VMware KB breaking change
Added notice about new VMware KB API

README.md, after:

# Transform VMware product builds

## Current Status
⚠️  The VMware KB API changed which introduced a breaking change for this project. This is tracked in issue https://github.com/dominikzorgnotti/transform-vmware-product-builds-to-json/issues/9  
⚠️ At the moment, release data is not updated

## Intro

This Python code parses VMware product release data from the kb
article [Correlating build numbers and versions of VMware products (1014508)](https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/1014508?lang=en_US)
and transforms them into a machine-readable format.  
A combination of parsing with [beautiful soup](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/) and data handling
with [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/) is the used to achieve the goal. A process is scheduled with GitHub actions to
run daily, the results will be pushed to the
repo [Machine-readable VMware release data](https://github.com/dominikzorgnotti/vmware_product_releases_machine-readable)
.

## Data standardization

Since v0.1.0 the raw data from the published KB is transformed to establish a standard in terms of column headers,
formatting, etc. KB 2143832 (ESXi) is used as the model for providing a standardized information set.

### Uniform column names

Columns describing the same data set have different labels, e.g. "Build number", "Build Number", "BuildNumber".  
In case of the example, the columns will be renamed to "Build Number" per KB 2143832.

### Multi-value columns

Columns may have more than one value, e.g. "Build Number - Version" in KB2143850 (vRealize Automation).  
In this case, two additional columns (Version, Build Number) will be added to the table each containing just a single
Value.

### Merged tables

Roadmap: There may be more than one table that hold the version information, e.g. in KB2143838 (vCenter Server). A merge
operation will attempt to provide a unified table.

### Nested tables, merged columns/rows

Since v0.2.0: For vCenter build information (KB2143838), this release based on PR #5 offers merged tables:
The KB article contains three tables:

- Release information for VCSA 7
- Release information for VCSA/Windows VC 6.7
- Release information for VCSA/Windows before that

The merged output available is now:

- one table for all VCSA releases
- one table for all Windows releases
- one table for all releases Unicode issues are addressed as well

### Non-standard tables

Since v0.4.0 the script can handle KB52075 (vxrail). This table has none of the default column names and also multi-line
column headers.

## Output format and folder structures

The way the output is currently structured is:

- Directory: based on Pandas options to
  handle [json data orientation](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.to_json.html)
    - Files: KB(a)_(b)_table(c)_release_as_(d)"
        - a: knowledge base article id - the unique ID for the KB article
        - b: product name - The first product from the meta data, all in lower case and spaces replaced by underscores
        - c: An id to identify multiple html tables on the section (starting at 0)
        - d: json data orientation - see above

## Disclaimer

This is not an official VMware repository and in no way linked in official capacity to my employment at VMware.
