templates/README.md, before:

# Machine-readable VMware release data

This repo contains the release data of VMware products in a machine-readable format (currently JSON). It enables you to use the data easier in scripts or other automation use-cases.  
The data is generated by a GitHub action running daily from [my transformation script](https://github.com/dominikzorgnotti/transform-vmware-product-builds-to-json).  

## Data standardization
Since v0.1.0 of the transformation script the raw data from the published KB is transformed to establish a standard in terms of column headers, formatting, etc.

## Output format and folder structures
Different use-cases, different ways to organize data.  
The way the output is currently structured is:   
- Directory: based on Pandas options to handle [json data orientation](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.to_json.html)
    - Files: KB(a)_(b)_table(c)_release_as_(d)"
       - a: knowledge base article id - the unique ID for the KB article
       - b: product name - The first product from the meta data, all in lower case and spaces replaced by underscores
       - c: An id to identify multiple html tables on the section (starting at 0)
       - d: json data orientation - see above

I will try to maintain a stable folder structure and data output formats but reserve the right to change it at any time.

## Source
Please review the original source of data [Correlating build numbers and versions of VMware products (1014508)](https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/1014508?lang=en_US)

| Product name	| Article |
:-----:|:-----:
VMware Converter Standalone	| Build numbers and versions of VMware Converter Standalone (2143828) |
VMware Data Recovery | Build numbers and versions of VMware Data Recovery (2143852) |
VMware ESXi/ESX | Build numbers and versions of VMware ESXi/ESX (2143832) |
VMware Horizon View | Build numbers and versions of VMware Horizon View (2143853) |
VMware NSX for vSphere | Build numbers and versions of VMware NSX for vSphere (2143854) |
VMware Site Recovery Manager | Build numbers and versions of VMware Site Recovery Manager (2143851) |
VMware vCenter Server | Build numbers and versions of VMware vCenter Server (2143838) |
VMware vCenter Chargeback | Build numbers and versions of VMware vCenter Chargeback (2143841) |
VMware vCloud Connector | Build numbers and versions of VMware vCloud Director and VMware vCloud Connector (2143847) |
VMware vCloud Director | Build numbers and versions of VMware vCloud Director and VMware vCloud Connector (2143847) |
VMware vCloud Networking and Security | Build numbers and versions of VMware vCloud Networking and Security (2143848) |
VMware vRealize Automation | Build numbers and versions of VMware vRealize Automation (2143850) |
VMware vRealize Orchestrator | Build numbers and versions of VMware vRealize Orchestrator (2143846) |
VMware vRealize Operations Manager | Build numbers and versions of VMware vRealize Operations Manager (2145975) |
VMware vSAN	| Build numbers and versions of VMware vSAN (2150753) |
VMware vShield | Build numbers and versions of VMware vShield (2143849) |
VMware vSphere Update Manager	| Build numbers and versions of VMware vSphere Update Manager (2143837) |
VMware vSphere Replication Appliance | Build numbers and versions of VMware vSphere Replication Appliance (2143840) |
VMware vSphere Storage Appliance | Build numbers and versions of VMware vSphere Storage Appliance (2145727) |
VxRAIL | Correlating VxRAIL Release with VMware build numbers (52075) |
VMware Cloud Foundation | Correlating VMware Cloud Foundation version with the versions of its constituent products (52520) |
VMware vRealize Network Insight (vRNI) | Build numbers and versions of VMware vRealize Network Insight (67245) |

Based on feedback: I can only with data that is published in the KB articles. It may not include pulled releases or beta builds.

## Disclaimer

This is not an official VMware repository. It is not linked in any capacity to my employment at VMware.    
All data that is processed is provided by VMware. I am just transforming the data VMware publishes in the knowledgebase and provide them in a different output format.
Errors can and will be made, please us this at your own discretion and test it out.

Commit message:

Added explanation for data standardization goals in the script

templates/README.md, after:

# Machine-readable VMware release data

This repo contains the release data of VMware products in a machine-readable format (currently JSON). It enables you to use the data easier in scripts or other automation use-cases.  
The data is generated by a GitHub action running daily from [my transformation script](https://github.com/dominikzorgnotti/transform-vmware-product-builds-to-json).  

## Data standardization
Since v0.1.0 the raw data from the published KB is transformed to establish a standard in terms of column headers, formatting, etc.
KB 2143832 (ESXi) is used as the model for providing a standardized information set.

### Uniform column names
Columns describing the same data set have different labels, e.g. "Build number", "Build Number", "BuildNumber".  
In case of the example, the columns will be renamed to "Build Number" per KB 2143832.

### Multi-value columns
Columns may have more than one value, e.g. "Build Number - Version" in KB2143850 (vRealize Automation).  
In this case, two additional columns (Version, Build Number) will be added to the table each containing just a single Value.

### Merged tables
Roadmap: There may be more than one table that hold the version information, e.g. in KB2143838 (vCenter Server).
A merge operation will attempt to provide a unified table.

### Nested tables, merged columns/rows
Roadmap: Tables may have nested tables (e.g. KB52520 - VCF)
A decomposition is needed to provide the information in a usable format.
## Output format and folder structures
Different use-cases, different ways to organize data.  
The way the output is currently structured is:   
- Directory: based on Pandas options to handle [json data orientation](https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.to_json.html)
    - Files: KB(a)_(b)_table(c)_release_as_(d)"
       - a: knowledge base article id - the unique ID for the KB article
       - b: product name - The first product from the meta data, all in lower case and spaces replaced by underscores
       - c: An id to identify multiple html tables on the section (starting at 0)
       - d: json data orientation - see above

I will try to maintain a stable folder structure and data output formats but reserve the right to change it at any time.

## Source
Please review the original source of data [Correlating build numbers and versions of VMware products (1014508)](https://kb.vmware.com/s/article/1014508?lang=en_US)

| Product name	| Article |
:-----:|:-----:
VMware Converter Standalone	| Build numbers and versions of VMware Converter Standalone (2143828) |
VMware Data Recovery | Build numbers and versions of VMware Data Recovery (2143852) |
VMware ESXi/ESX | Build numbers and versions of VMware ESXi/ESX (2143832) |
VMware Horizon View | Build numbers and versions of VMware Horizon View (2143853) |
VMware NSX for vSphere | Build numbers and versions of VMware NSX for vSphere (2143854) |
VMware Site Recovery Manager | Build numbers and versions of VMware Site Recovery Manager (2143851) |
VMware vCenter Server | Build numbers and versions of VMware vCenter Server (2143838) |
VMware vCenter Chargeback | Build numbers and versions of VMware vCenter Chargeback (2143841) |
VMware vCloud Connector | Build numbers and versions of VMware vCloud Director and VMware vCloud Connector (2143847) |
VMware vCloud Director | Build numbers and versions of VMware vCloud Director and VMware vCloud Connector (2143847) |
VMware vCloud Networking and Security | Build numbers and versions of VMware vCloud Networking and Security (2143848) |
VMware vRealize Automation | Build numbers and versions of VMware vRealize Automation (2143850) |
VMware vRealize Orchestrator | Build numbers and versions of VMware vRealize Orchestrator (2143846) |
VMware vRealize Operations Manager | Build numbers and versions of VMware vRealize Operations Manager (2145975) |
VMware vSAN	| Build numbers and versions of VMware vSAN (2150753) |
VMware vShield | Build numbers and versions of VMware vShield (2143849) |
VMware vSphere Update Manager	| Build numbers and versions of VMware vSphere Update Manager (2143837) |
VMware vSphere Replication Appliance | Build numbers and versions of VMware vSphere Replication Appliance (2143840) |
VMware vSphere Storage Appliance | Build numbers and versions of VMware vSphere Storage Appliance (2145727) |
VxRAIL | Correlating VxRAIL Release with VMware build numbers (52075) |
VMware Cloud Foundation | Correlating VMware Cloud Foundation version with the versions of its constituent products (52520) |
VMware vRealize Network Insight (vRNI) | Build numbers and versions of VMware vRealize Network Insight (67245) |

Based on feedback: I can only with data that is published in the KB articles. It may not include pulled releases or beta builds.

## Disclaimer

This is not an official VMware repository. It is not linked in any capacity to my employment at VMware.    
All data that is processed is provided by VMware. I am just transforming the data VMware publishes in the knowledgebase and provide them in a different output format.
Errors can and will be made, please us this at your own discretion and test it out.
